Earlier we talked about
object oriented Python.
We talked about classes and
self and what the difference is.
So let's open a new file and
save this one as class underscore example.
And we're going to be running this one
from the command line rather than from
the repple.
We're going to pass in
several variables and
save them to the instance
by using the self.
In this example,
we added some class variables.
So these are variables that exists for
all instances of a class.
Here we set the number of wheels
to be four at the class scope.
And we can query both the instance and
the class variables.
When we set the instance variable to 3,
we'll note that the class
variable is still 4.
Now inheritance is a topic that you
should go through on your own time.
I highly recommend that you revisit
this chapter and this practice,
because it's one of
the foundational topics in Python.
We talked about using type,
isinstance and issubclass to learn more
about the different classes and
objects that we're working with.
And we also learned about tracebacks and
exceptions.
So, you've probably already seen
the indentation error quite a few
times as you've been working in Python.
You've also seen the more
general syntax error.
And there are other common
exceptions that you might see.
For example, if you try to divide by
zero you will see a zero division error.
Or if you try to get a key out of
a dictionary and that key doesn't exist,
you will see a key error.
Adding together two unrelated types
will throw an exception as well.
If you want to raise your own exceptions,
you will need to inherit
from the exception class.
If you do that by when you define
your class, passing in the exception
class in parentheses, and
then you can go ahead and just raise it.
Having a custom exceptions in your
programs is a great best practice because
we want to catch exceptions that
are as specific as possible.
So that we have a better idea of what's
going wrong when things do inevitably
go wrong.
You can catch exceptions with try and
accept.
So, try followed by an indented block
of code with what you are trying
that might throw an exception,
followed by an accept clause
that also defines what exception
you would like to catch.
You could also use the as keyword if
you need a handle on that exception.
For example,
if you wanted to grab the error message.
You can also re-raise
exceptions as needed.
So catching an exception and
then raising a more specific one.
Or catching an exception and
then raising a custom exception are both
things that you might see in Python code.